---
permalink: /about/
title: About me
---

I feel like I would not really be where I am today without a plethora of passions
keeping my stress levels low and my brain spinning.

## Videogames

Videogames have been with me since forever ago. I still remember when I went to get our
first PC (an Intel 486) with my dad. It's like a memory from a Guy Ritchie movie more
than a child memory: I was 6 and we went together to get it into what I remember being a
dark alley from a guy coming out of a door illuminated just by an industrial light on
it.

I don't really know if this is very accurate, but I remember being interested in PCs and
videogames since then.

They allowed me to go through years where I couldn't really make friends, thanks to the
stories they narrated. I remember with fondness the time spent to finish adventure games
such as "Monkey Island", "Day of the Tentacle" or "Gobliiins".

In middle school I got my first home console (my parents were against consoles for some
reasons, even though they spent years playing at arcades or with their Commodore 64), a
PS1. That allowed me to have access to a lot of classics and that's when I encountered
the first game of one of my favourite game series: "Metal Gear Solid". I didn't quite
played it the way I think should be played, but I went back to it in the future, so no
worries.

During high school I worked on a couple games. It was the time of FLASH, Game Maker and
RPGMaker, however my friends really wanted to write a 3D engine from scratch. It didn't
go too well, but I worked with another friend on the design and on retrieving data for
it. With the same friend I made a _very silly_ RPGMaker game. It was a blast. We would 
meet once or twice a week to work on it: a lot of silly stuff, very litte testing, but
we got to the end of it.

I also played a ton of bad games. I think I did that until I found a group of friends
that shared my passion for videogames. Thanks to them I started being more selective
with games. However too much time and too little focus span made me start one game after
another without finishing a single one. The PS2/XBOX360 era has been a blur of
unfinished games.

There are some exceptions to this issue, which are some of the games that are some of my
favourites of all times: "REZ", "Ikaruga", "Resident Evil 4", "Zone Of The Enders:
Anubis", "Vagrant Story", and "Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater". The last two games,
especially, lit the fire of passion for videogames and made me start looking at games
in a more critical way (also put a bug in my ear: "I want to make games in the future").

Once I started the last year of the Bachelor's I swore that I would finish one game
before starting another. And that's when I started appreciate more the time with games,
along with taking _way_ more time to decide what to play next each time.

My plans for game making didn't really go that well: I have been suffering from ADD
since high school, but it was left undetected and untreated since I was 33 years old.
This was because I used all my energies and efforts to actually _do what was required
of me_ by school and all the times I tried to work on a project I would not be able to
complete it. To make things worse Italian universities and industry are not really
known for their acceptance of Videogame development as a serious activity so virtually
no courses are available in university. To fix this I decided to go for a semester to
study in Denmark, leaving all of my friends behind.

It was lonely. Very lonely. Crushingly so. However I managed to find two people that I
connected with, followed some extremely interesting courses and had some of the fun I
needed.

At the end of the Master's I tried to pursue a path that would lead me into game design
and development: a PhD in game design. I studied and learned a lot about behaviour
change, nudging theories, cognitive sciences, and I also managed to work on a game
prototype with a new type of physical controller with some PhD colleagues which won a
prize in 2014; but, alas, the environment wasn't really good to work on games and so,
not without any difficulty, I decided to abandon the PhD and move on.

Now my connection with games is as strong as ever. Ok, mayber my tastes have changed
since the times of trashy PS1 games rented at Blockbuster.

### Favourite videogames

- **"Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater"\
  "Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker"\
  "Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain"**\
  This, in my opinion, is the best trilogy in the game industry. Each game builds on top
  of the previous, expanding it in uninmaginable ways, but remaining faithful to the
  precedent. This is one of the games that made me say "I want to be able to make
  games like this". The narrative is deep without becoming stuffy, the gameplay is
  slick, and the music is in my playlists even now. MGS3 is the game is the one that
  made me start playing the non-lethal route in every game that has that option.

- **"Vagrant Story"**\
  fej

## Tabletop RPGs

## Anime & Manga

## Mechanical Keyboards

## Music
